# memenator
Super simple Meme Generator app

[Download on PlayStore](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ninogenio.memenator) or [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/tz3qmlzoukz2jzr/app-release.apk?dl=0)

This app is designed with MVP (Model-View-Presenter) architecture. Important classes in the MVP architecture, in short, are below:
- View, manager of the UI, its only responsibilty is handling and managing all the UI action, listener, and anything regarding UI
- Presenter, the star behind the View, it handles all logics needed by the View
- Interactor, it's like the manager of the core business, it doesn't care about the outside world (view, presenter). Its only responsibility is managing all the core business of the app
- Model, model of the data used in the app. Sometimes it's also called Entity of the core business

Memenator saves the image file generated by the app in these directories:
- /Memenator/MemenatorCamera: Camera saved files
- /Memenator/Meme: All generated meme images
- /Memenator/MemeThumb: All generated meme thumbnail images

Steps taken by the app in generating the Meme image file:

1. Image source are scaled to have the same width as the device's width (From here on, we'll call it "scaled bitmap")
2. User edits and creates the meme, and then tapping "Save"
3. The app save the scaled bitmap to the "/Memenator/Meme" directory
4. The app save the thumbnail image (0.9 smaller than scaled bitmap), to "/Memenator/MemeThumb" directory
5. If step 3 success, save the record to the RealmDB

This app has 6 different APKs to support many CPU architecture. It happened because of the issue in RealmDB that makes the APK 3MB larger. By using APK Split, gradle splits the APK according to the CPU architecture. If you're having problem downloading the app from the PlayStore. Please try [this universal APK.](https://www.dropbox.com/s/tz3qmlzoukz2jzr/app-release.apk?dl=0)

## FAQ
**Why scale it to the width of the screen?**

In the experiment, this size results in the fastest real-time editing without sacrificing the image quality

**Why scale the thumbnail 0.9 smaller than the Scaled Bitmap**

In the experiment with low-end devices, it's actually not reallly necessary. But just in case the device is really low on memory, the app won't lag by scaling it doown

## Technical Specs

Language: Kotlin

Libraries used:
- RxJava and RxAndroid, for reactive programming approach
- Anko, Android helper from Kotlin that can reduce a lot of Android boilerplates
- Android Support & ApppCompat, Android library which supports new Android features for older Android version
- Glide, image loader
- Subsampling Scale ImageView, easy to use 'pinch-to-zoom'able ImageView
- FloatingActionButton
- Timber, for better logging

Supported Android Versions: 4.0.4+
